*This is the public posting of the assignment. See Blackboard for the invite link to make your submission in your own repository in the class organization*

# Homework 2: Establish an Academic Presence

**Due:** Tuesday, January 25, 2022 *before* class

To demonstrate that you have completed these tasks, create a Markdown report named `HW2-report.md`.  All reports must include your name, class, assignment number/title, and date.  Your report must be properly formatted.  *Do not edit this file, `README.md`*

# Assignment

Acknowledgement: Parts of this assignment were inspired by [CS 395 at ODU](https://github.com/phonedude/cs395-s20/blob/master/assignments/assignment-01.md) and [CS 5014 at Virginia Tech](http://courses.cs.vt.edu/~cs5014/F15/Assign14.html).

### Part 1 - Online Research Presence

***Report:*** You will be creating multiple online accounts and webpages.  Include links to all of these accounts and/or pages in your Markdown report.  For your academic webpage, also include links to any webpages you used as inspiration.  

For all of the accounts you create, fill out your bio and include an appropriate profile picture. If you already have an account made and are fine with it being your professional account, you do not need to create an additional one. Remember that all of these accounts are expressions of your professional online presence, so you should be comfortable sharing with a potential employer.

There should be some linkage from each of these accounts to the others.  For example, if someone finds your Twitter account, they should be able to discover all of these other accounts. Often this can be done by linking to these accounts from your academic webpage and then including the URI of your webpage in the bio of the other accounts.

**Twitter**  
Create a Twitter account. This account will be a "professional" identity, so feel free to create a new account if you want to partition your professional identity from an already existing recreational identity.  Create a new thread in the [Twitter Accounts Discussion Forum](https://www.blackboard.odu.edu/webapps/discussionboard/do/forum?action=list_threads&course_id=_394465_1&nav=discussion_board_entry&conf_id=_457421_1&forum_id=_522042_1) in Blackboard with your Twitter username.

**Google Scholar**   
Create an account on Google Scholar.  If you do not have any publications, you can create a "fake" publication to get you started and then manually delete it later.  See https://libraries.ou.edu/content/create-google-scholar-profile for information on how to add and delete publications.

**ORCID**  
Create an ORCID.

**LinkedIn**  
Create a LinkedIn account.

**Academic Webpage**   
Create an academic webpage. You should include elements that we have discussed in class, including your email address and links to the other accounts you have created above. The goal of this webpage is to show off your role within the CS Department and the profession. There should be some effort to include (reasonable) use of color and visual elements. That is, your webpage should be visually appealing and professional. 

You may host this webpage wherever you wish, but ht<span>tps://</span>w<span>ww.cs</span>.odu.edu/~*CSusername*/ should redirect to that webpage so that your page can easily be discovered. The Systems Group webpage on [Web Services](https://systems.cs.odu.edu/Web_Services) provides information on how to do this.

### Part 2 - Find Researchers Online

**Twitter**   
Start following academic accounts.  Begin by following your class colleagues (see Discussion Board), ODU CS faculty and labs (list of accounts at https://twitter.com/i/lists/1479504235377086471/members), and [@AcademicsSay](https://twitter.com/AcademicsSay). You may also want to follow some of the other ODU-related accounts (list at https://twitter.com/i/lists/1385602634808238081/members). Consider using "lists" to partition accounts thematically.  Investigate others' following lists for recommendations on others to follow.   Find additional researchers in your research area to follow. You should be *following at least 40 accounts* before the assignment deadline. 

**Google Scholar**   
Start by following ODU CS faculty ([faculty list](https://odu.edu/compsci/directory)). Identify and follow at least 5 additional scholars in your research area. You should continue identifying and following researchers throughout the semester (and your academic career).

***Report:*** List the ODU CS faculty who you find in Google Scholar and link to their Google Scholar pages.  For those researchers in your area who are outside of ODU, include their name and links to their academic webpage, Twitter, and Google Scholar (as available).  

### Part 3 - \#cs800s22 \#TIL 

To help you engage with current events, use your Twitter account to quote tweet (retweet with comment) an interesting research or academic tool, data set, analysis, research result, commentary, etc. that you saw from one of the accounts you follow.  When you "quote tweet", add a short, constructive commentary along with the hashtags "[\#cs800s22 \#TIL](https://twitter.com/search?q=%23cs800s22%20%23TIL&f=live)". Note that this is a quote tweet of something you've seen on Twitter, not just tweeting an interesting article or website you found online. 

This should be repeated each week before Tuesday's class meeting.  

Each Tuesday, I will choose one student each week to discuss their submission with the class for 2-3 minutes. 

Here are some good examples from previous semesters:
* https://twitter.com/jaf_ferdous/status/1367281265095839744
* https://twitter.com/maruf_sakib/status/1369207468065251328
* https://twitter.com/pates_richard/status/1249190032868544513
* https://twitter.com/mahanama94/status/1235655544842727425
* https://twitter.com/HimarshaJ/status/1232394425076256768

***Report:*** There is nothing to include in your report for this section, but be prepared to talk about your "\#TIL" in class each Tuesday.

## Submission

Make sure that you have committed and pushed your local repo to the assignment repository on GitHub.  Your repo should include at least `README.md` (this file) and `HW2-report.md`.

Submit the URL of your repo in Blackboard:

* Click on HW2 under Assignments
* Under "Assignment Submission", click the "Write Submission" button.
* Copy/paste the URL of your repo into the edit box
  * should be something like ht<span>tps://</span>github.com/cs800-research-spr22/hw2-presence-*username*/
* Make sure to "Submit" your assignment.
